Document how our documentation works (#50464)
mistercrunch/Airflow: docs/README.md

  automatically and the changes will be synchronized to `airflow-site-archive` `main` branch - so there
  is no need to merge your changes to `main` branch of `airflow-site-archive` repository.

![Sync GitHub to S3](images/sync_github_to_s3.png)

## Manually publishing documentation

The regular publishing workflows involve running Github Actions workflow and they cover majority of cases,
however sometimes some manual updates and cherry-picks are needed, when we discover problems with the
publishing and doc building code - for example when we find that we need to fix extensions to sphinx.

In such case, release manager or a committer can build and publish documentation locally - providing that
they configure AWS credentials to be able to upload files to S3.

You can checkout locally a version of airflow repo that you need and apply any cherry-picks you need before
running publishing.

This is done using breeze. You also need to have aws CLI installed and configured credentials to be able
to upload files to S3. You can get credentials from one of the admins of Airflow's AWS account. The
region to set for AWS is `us-east-2`.

> 

Reviewer: We can add a note about dry running a when using manual `breeze release-management publish-docs-to-s3` would better always.

Author: yeah. I am also adding another manual method - without the need of S3 credentials - via archive repo

Author: Added the second manual update option and mentioned `--dry-run`

   provider distributions, providers summary and docker summary: [apache-airflow](https://github.com/apache/airflow)
   from here we publish the documentation to S3 bucket where the documentation is hosted.
* `airflow-site` - the repository with the website theme and content where we keep sources of the website
   structure, navigation, theme for the website [airflow-site](https://github.com/apache/airflow). From here
   we publish the website to the ASF servers so they are publish as the [official website](https://airflow.apache.org)
* `airflow-site-archive` - here we keep the archived historical versions of the generated documentation
   of all the documentation packages that we keep on S3. This repository is automatically synchronized from
   the S3 buckets and is only used in case we need to perform a bulk update of historical documentation. Here only
   generated `html`, `css`, `js` and `images` files are kept, no sources of the documentation are kept here.

We have two S3 buckets where we can publish the documentation generated from `apache-airflow` repository:

* `s3://live-docs-airflow-apache-org/docs/` - live, [official documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/)

> * `s3://staging-docs-airflow-apache-org/docs/` - staging documentation [official documentation](https://staging-airflow.apache.org/docs/) TODO: make it works

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `s3://staging-docs-airflow-apache-org/docs/` - staging documentation [official documentation](https://staging-airflow.apache.org/docs/) TODO: make it work
```

# Diagrams of the documentation architecture

> This is the diagram od live documentation architecture:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the diagram of live documentation architecture:
```

![Live documentation architecture](images/documentation_architecture.png)

Staging documentation architecture is similar, but uses staging bucket and staging Apache Website.

# Typical workflows

There are a few typical workflows that we support:

## Publishing the documentation by the release manager

The release manager publishes the documentation using `Publish Docs to S3` GitHub Action (accessible

> via [GitHub UI](https://github.com/apache/airflow/actions/workflows/publish-docs-to-s3.yml). The same  workflow can be used to publish Airflow, Helm chart and providers documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
via [GitHub UI](https://github.com/apache/airflow/actions/workflows/publish-docs-to-s3.yml). The same workflow can be used to publish Airflow, Helm chart and providers documentation.
```

The person who triggers the build (release manager) should specify the tag name of the docs to be published
and the list of documentation packages to be published. Usually it is:

* Airflow: `apache-airflow docker-stack` (later we will add `airflow-ctl` and `task-sdk`)
* Helm chart: `helm-chart`
* Providers: `provider_id1 provider_id2` or `all providers` if all providers should be published.

Optionally - specifically if we run `all-providers` and release manager wants to exclude some providers,
they can specify documentation packages to exclude. Leaving "no-docs-excluded" will publish all packages
specified to be published without exclusions.

You can also specify whether "live" or "staging" documentation should be published. The default is "live".

Example screenshot of the workflow triggered from the GitHub UI:

![Publishing airflow](images/publish_airflow.png)

Right after the workflow succeeds and documentation is published, in live bucket, the `airflow-site-archive`

> repository is automatically synchronized with the live S3 bucket. TO DO: IMPLEMENT THIS, FOR NOW IT HAS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
repository is automatically synchronized with the live S3 bucket. TODO: IMPLEMENT THIS, FOR NOW IT HAS
```

TO BE MANUALLY SYNCHRONIZED VIA [Sync s3 to GitHub](https://github.com/apache/airflow-site-archive/actions/workflows/s3-to-github.yml)
workflow in `airflow-site-archive` repository. The `airflow-site-archive` essentially keeps the history of
snapshots of the `live` documentation.

Also another thing that is triggered automatically (TODO: IMPLEMENT THIS) is building the `airflow-site`
and re-publishing it. This is needed in order to refresh version numbers of published documentation. After
you publish new version of the documentation, the "stable" version of the documentation is automatically
replaced with the new version, however building the `airflow-site` is needed to make sure that the drop-down
version numbers are updated properly.

## Publishing changes to the website (including theme)

> The workflows in `apache-airflow` only update the documentation for the documentation packages (Airflow, Helm chart,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The workflows in `apache-airflow` only update the documentation for the packages (Airflow, Helm chart,
```

4. Run `Sync GitHub to S3` workflow in `airflow-site-archive` repository. This will upload the modified
   documentation to S3 bucket.
5. You can choose, whether to sync the changes to `live` or `staging` bucket. The default is `live`.
6. By default the workflow will synchronize all documentation modified in single - last commit pushed to
   the branch you specified. You can also specify "full_sync" to synchronize all files in the repository.
7. In case you specify "full_sync", you can also synchronize `all` docs or only selected documentation
   packages (for example `apache-airflow` or `docker-stack` or `amazon` or `helm-chart`) - you can specify
   more than one package separated by  spaces.
8. After you synchronize the changes to S3, the Sync `S3 to GitHub` workflow will be triggered
   automatically and the changes will be synchronized to `airflow-site-archive` `main` branch - so there
   is no need to merge your changes to `main` branch of `airflow-site-archive` repository. You can safely
   delete the branch you created in step 3.

![Sync GitHub to S3](images/sync_github_to_s3.png)

> ## Manually publishing documentation directly to S3

Reviewer 3: Should we have a section that explains how to get permission to the S3?
I assume only specific persons have access to the account

Author: Sure. We can add "Ask in #internal-airflow-ci-cd channel on slack"
